# UNEVEN-TERRAIN-AMPLITUDE README

[DOI: 10.5281/zenodo.14977254](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.14977254)

This repository contains data for Hosseini-Yazi & Kuo (2025). The energetic cost of human walking as a function of uneen terrain amplitude, *Journal of Experimental Biology* 228, jeb249840. [https://doi:10.1242/jeb.249840](https://doi:10.1242/jeb.249840).

The data consist of kinematic data, work performed on the body center of mass, and net metabolic rate (via expired gas respirometry), for young healthy adults (N=10) walking a range of four speeds and on four uneven terrain amplitudes. Details of the uneven terrain treadmill are available in a previous publication <https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbiomech.2024.112376>.

A sample Python file `Statistical Analysis_NMR_Work_3D-JEB.py` is provided to illustrate reading data from csv file.

### CSV files

-   `W_YA_df_export.csv`: Data for 10 young adult subjects, for four walking speeds and four terrain amplitudes.
-   `Young Adult Subjects information.csv`: Body mass and leg length data.

### Data columns

Almost all data are non-dimensionalized, with body mass, leg length, and gravitational acceleration as base units. See the paper for details.

The conditions are `Velocity` (m/s) and `Max_h` (m) for terrain amplitude. Additional columns of non-dimensional conditions are included as `v_dl`, `h_dl`. There are also related columns such as `v2_dl` (velocity squared, dimensionless), `h2_dl` (amplitude squared, dimensionless), etc.

#### Work components

Work per step is provided, with average work per stride (of one leg) for each subject and condition (prefix `ave_`), and root-mean-square variability (`std_`). The quantities include positive and negative work per stride, push-off, collision, preload, and rebound.

#### Timing

Step times are shown as `tstepdl` (dimensionless). Additional information includes `stride`, `stance`, `swing`, `singlesupport`, and `doublesupport` times.

#### Metabolic rate

Energetics data are provided in Net_MR (dimensionless metabolic power).

#### Statistical analysis

Some analysis performed using linear statistical models, with each individual's offset included as random effect.

#### Exported spreadsheets

Some spreadsheets are produced to summarize the statistical analysis. A tabulation function prints out tables of results and places them in spreadsheet.

## Python requirements

Install the dependencies from `requirements.txt`, or use the `pyproject.toml` generated by `uv`, or `uv.lock`. The dependencies are standard, e.g. numpy, statsmodels, pandas, etc.